[Music]  compassion  the perception of compassion  as opposed to  compassion  in your mind  in your heart  do you think of these  as two separate things  do you imagine  that there is such a thing as  objectively  real compassion something that exists  something that can be measured  separate from  our subjective  perception of it our experience of it as  it's linked not just to our own culture  but also to our feelings about  particular people  very memorable experience i once had  where i reached out and got in touch  with somebody on the internet  just because i had it in me to help  and she seemed like she needed to help  this person was vegan  i didn't know a whole lot else about her  and it was irrelevant to me  that she was good-looking  but it becomes relevant to this story  soon enough she was a good-looking  female  and she had made just a few very vague  statements on the internet  that she was upset  that a series of tragic things that  happened in her life  and that she was worried that she was  going to lapse into outright drug  addiction  and  as you can imagine she was vague about  exactly what drug it was but from her  wording you could tell it was some kind  of really hard drug  i got in touch there  i forget now if we spoke  by the telephone or via skype or some  other form of voice  chat but i had  a conversation with her this way  and she remarked at the time i remember  her sending me some kind of text message  after i forget if they were facebook  messages or email or what but i remember  her  praising me and saying that i had been  really compassionate she perceived what  i'd done and what i'd said in this  intervention as compassionate in just a  moment i'll come back and describe for  you what it was i  had to say to her but in that  conversation  you know she revealed that the drug in  question was meth  i don't think anyone should push their  luck with any recreational drugs i'm  i'm really opposed even to smoking  marijuana  but of all the drugs to roll the dice  with you know if you just spend one long  weekend with methamphetamines in your  life  of course i mean it could be the end of  your life and it could change your life  forever i mean this  and this was a young woman who had  already had the experience of developing  addiction and quitting and getting clean  she'd already kind of been through that  at least once so for her it wasn't her  first experience it was a a kind of a  relapse  now i think you can imagine there are  many different reasons  why  it had not even occurred to me  that  this woman would be a  sexual partner for me that i didn't  think of her in a romantic way or a  sexual way at all  one of the most obvious is  i'm not interested  in sleeping with a methamphetamine  addict and you know that is part of the  story here  she was a good looking woman and it  matters because probably on some level  she assumed or she took it for granted  that my motives  my motivation and speaking to her and  showing some care or concern am i trying  to be helpful for that that indicated  that i was interested in her sexually  and i wasn't  now really brief digression about  language emotion  and like what i call the kind of the the  telepathy we all have for reading a  great deal into just a single word a  single glance single turn of phrase  when you're talking to someone who grew  up in exactly the same culture you grew  up in who speaks exactly the same  first language you speak  um  you can accurately read a great deal  into just a few words but just to look  in the eyes you know  you can make a mistake you can  but as i recall like i don't even think  i said anything that really rejected her  or shut her down but a couple weeks  after i had this conversation with her  she started hitting on me  and i remember my reaction was just like  what  and if it's your first language if  you're both members of exactly the same  culture and so on  i really do understand how a woman or  her position can get the whole message  out of just the way you said what like  your sense of astonishment  and that you're mildly offended or even  revolted  there are advances like like sometimes  it's enough to just say  what um  i had another example with another woman  i was telling melissa about the other  way where all i said to this woman was  yeah  [Laughter]  she's a woman who's  flirted with me several times over a  space of a year or something  and you know  she she just yeah she got it she really  got the message  you know  and you know what i mean like i'm not  playing hard to get i'm actually hard to  get and i'm not interested in you and i  never was so like  you know where all that comes across  with like one word or a very very short  interaction  anyway to end that part of the story  um this young woman i was talking to who  was you know  you know in danger slipping away into  into drug addiction  um  she had been thanking me for being so  compassionate just a few days before or  a few weeks before and you know  obviously i can't recreate the exact  word she didn't use  academic and philosophical terms but you  know she had been thanking me for  having the compassion and having the  positive motivation to reach out to her  and help her and you know  and now here she was as soon as she felt  rejected by me as soon as it was clear  that my interest in her was not  sexual at all that i i wasn't trying to  seduce her i didn't have any i didn't  think of her that way and i didn't think  of the conversation we had that way  she started cussing me out and attacking  me  and  i mean she was probably good looking  enough that her whole life  uh i'm not saying she could get any man  she ever wanted i'm not saying she could  have a relationship with anybody with  that that's that's hard to do but  probably any man she wanted to flirt  with  would respond positively to those first  stages of flirtation or going out for  coffee or something she's probably good  looking out that she took that  for granted so i think she reacted to  that rejection  very very negatively  and i i have a lot of experience those  kinds of situations with  with women now  what did i actually say to her  was it compassionate she perceived it as  compassionate  you think that had nothing to do with  the fact that she wanted to sleep with  me  you think i had nothing to do with the  fact she was turned on by the  conversation i wasn't  that's not how i saw it and that's why  she was so angry right like suddenly she  feels like she's just this pathetic  junkie like she's just this street  urchin i'm taking pity on suddenly it  clicks for her that from my perspective  right i look down on her she's someone  i'm trying to help not someone i'm  trying to [ __ ]  all of a sudden she feels like oh from  this guy's perspective we're on two  different levels right  she's she's just some drug addict  who needs a morality lecture and now she  hates me for it now she resents me for  it right before  like to some extent she had a crush on  me or she had some level of interest in  me i i can totally see like probably it  was like in the days after she had that  conversation you know her mind starts  going wild and she starts clicking on my  instagram photos or whatever you know  she starts looking hmm  you know i had when you look at him from  the right angle you know maybe you know  maybe she's having dreams about me or  whatever you know this is  melissa is laughing her ass off right  now by the way  you know you can have that kind of  conversation and maybe you know maybe  she was a little bit interested before  she had the conversation while the  conversation's going on you're getting  more interested and then you then you're  really interested a few days later when  you're looking back on it or something  right  what i had to say to her in that  conversation could 100 percent be  interpreted as  cruel  vicious  disapproving demanding as a condemnation  right i  some of you this is the first video  you've ever seen on my channel okay  but i am not one of these left-wing  people who thinks that you know you do  you  that everyone should just do whatever  drugs make them feel good and it's all  it's all groovy you know i i was telling  this young woman like you know  the next 10 years of your life or  something you know  what you are risking here you know  and and for what you know  you're not in a battlefield trying to  win a war you know you're not uh you're  not going to cambodia to do humanitarian  work you're not handing out sacks of  rice to starving people that lost you're  not doing something good you're not  risking your life you're not risking  getting malaria so that you can be in  the jungle and do this humanitarian  worker through this race like no  this is something  you know 100  selfish 100 short-term self-indulgence  you know what give me yeah  i was just reminded of an example i read  a story from a woman online who started  getting into using meth because she was  raising kids and she felt like she  needed to stay awake taking care of her  kids so anyway i know there are many  reasons  well i i just say unfortunately that  story is probably a lie it's probably an  excuse because there are a lot of there  are a lot of meth heads who make up  sympathetic sounding stories  so that has to be that is to keep in  mind one of the most common being uh  people who claim they started taking  meth because they were just so tired  from working their factory job working  on some well well there were 200 other  people doing exactly the same job in  exactly the same factory and i i noticed  only you so  good story cool story bro  okay but look um  obviously i am not saying that what i  told her was the opposite of compassion  i am pointing out that when we talk  about compassion  one there's an assumption that we're  talking about something that really  exists at all  two  there's an assumption  that it is a morally good thing  for you to believe  that it exists  so much of what we deal with  in both religion and politics  falls into this category of things you  supposedly ought to believe in  and the whole discourse is about all the  benefits all the good things that are  going to come into your life and the  benefits they're going to make society a  better place if if  you will just believe in  this abstract concept that you can't  smell and you can't taste and you can't  touch and you can't empirically test or  verify  we'll get into that part of it a little  bit later on um  the soul  does the immortal soul  exist  almost nobody wants to talk about that  way what they want to talk about is how  you ought to believe in your soul how  you ought to be concerned about your  soul and how you will be a better person  or we will have a better society if  everyone were beholden to this belief in  the soul  so you are describing to me  a miniature version of myself  that exists within my body  and that will escape  as my body dies  in the same sense that a lifeboat  escapes from the hulk  of a sinking  ship is that real  does that exist when you read the bible  cover to cover is there a single  argument advanced  for the soul with that definition that  very simple definition that the body  contains an immortal soul no there isn't  i mean quite apart from whether or not  there will be proof or evidence there  isn't even a philosophical argument for  that in the christian bible or the  jewish bible or or putting them together  in fact when you read the bible  and you look at all the appearances of  the word or concept soul there are parts  of the bible where it is presumed that  the only way god can punish you after  you die  is to curse your children and  grandchildren to seven generations there  are actually many different views of the  afterlife and of the soul and of the  body and what it means to be a human  being  within the bible because the bible was  written by a whole bunch of different  people  and and they weren't even really  organized into one religion called  judaism in one place at one time uh when  when the bible was rinsed there are a  variety of views here and for some  reason nobody writing the bible  wanted to put down a rational account of  how it was we got this idea that we have  a soul and that it escapes the body and  survives death  in the first place why that would be a  rational or reasonable conclusion  there is a gruesome description  in the buddhist canon  so this is the pali tipitaka this is the  foundational set of texts from which all  forms of buddhism are  devolved  um  mayana buddhists japanese buddhists they  often want to deny or minimize that but  it's the truth this is the equivalent of  the old testament  for for buddhism and for all forms of  buddhism not just therapeutic ones  there is a description there of a king  who was in a position to torture and  execute people  and who tested the hypothesis that the  soul exists in various ways  including by  killing men inside a sort of pressure  cooker  there's a big pot and the lid is clamped  down and airtight  and you you boil them to death basically  some of that  you know  and after they have expired  inside this  air tight container  let the lid off to see if you can  observe the escaping of the soul as it  goes to the to the afterlife  um  [Music]  perhaps this is fanciful but it's it's  quite plausible that any number of  people in ancient india tested the  basically what we would now call the  hindu view of the soul but the views of  the soul's existence in ancient india  all right  there was a time  when people engaged in weighing the  human body  before and after death and trying to  prove that there was some slight  difference in the weight  of the body that could be attributed to  the soul that you know there was this  actually existing entity that escaped at  the time of your death  um that again we should all be beholden  to so on and so forth there's very  little interest  in  this question of does it exist is it  real with any cultural concept  very quickly what the proponents of  these beliefs want to do is to switch  into the separate but profoundly related  question of why you ought to believe in  this  um  and this includes marxists communists  like different kinds of atheist  ideologies that frankly resemble  religion  in terms of the extent to which they try  to enjoin  certain kinds of binding beliefs  upon you  um  so we switch  very quickly  from the question of  is this real  how do we know  that this exists epistemology how how  would we know that this exists  if it were real how  why is it that our knowledge of this  thing relies entirely on mythology and  literature isn't that peculiar  you know we don't question  how would the world be different if this  were not real if it didn't exist like  why is this a necessary part of your  description of how reality works  so you guys may not know about this very  very briefly i have mentioned it before  there is a scientific hypothesis that  there is an extra planet in our solar  system there is a so-called dark planet  that there's a planet revolving around  our sun but it's too distant to be seen  easily by telescopes it's not reflecting  light and so on now why would anyone  create the support like obviously be  honest you could say well theoretically  there could be another 10 planets well  you know we'll keep going we'll stop at  one extra planet we can we can invent  all cosmos  well  the theory the strength of the theory is  that when you really look at the  calculations in precise detail  for the orbits of the various planets  around the sun and other pieces of data  asteroids  comets and this kind of thing  apparently without positing the  existence of another planet without the  hypothesis this is a true hypothesis  scientific unproven it's unfounded  empirically  if you don't  posit  an extra planet  then when you do the math it doesn't  quite work out  right that the actual movements of the  plants don't quite make sense they're  not quite mathematically perfect now  there are other explanations for that  right like the  what if the other explanations are that  some of the other assumptions built into  our mathematical models are false like  what if there is another law of physics  we haven't discovered yet that just  slightly changes the motion of the  planet so you can come up with various  other theses to say oh well if the  equations are are not quite right  obviously maybe there's just something  wrong with our equations but apparently  you can make all the numbers fit  that all the clockwork turns perfectly  if you hypothesize that there is yet  another planet and it's very distant and  very dark  and that its gravitational pull is  slightly  in a nuanced way uh influencing the  positions and movements of the other  planets so there you have a hypothesis  where it's very clear if we remove this  if we presume it doesn't exist now we  can see how different  reality would be  we can see what what a difference this  would make  how would the world be different  if the soul didn't exist  how would the world be different if the  soul  were just a literary concept a  mythological concept an allegory a trope  that it was something no more real than  other ideas that had emerged from poetry  in various cultures things that can  never  really be real  um  and then we can turn it around and ask  if this were real if this really existed  how would it be possible for us to have  such a tremendous diversity of opinions  about it that are in constant conflict  with one another why would we be so  incapable of coming coming up with a  coherent description of it or a coherent  response to it culturally politically  religiously so on and so forth  now again this applies to the soul it  applies to the afterlife it applies to  the communist notion of utopia being  produced by dialectical materialism this  line of questioning should be applied to  everything and the ultimate result is  nihilism  it should already be evident from the  first anecdote i've told in this video  being a nihilist doesn't mean you're  malicious  it doesn't even mean that you disbelieve  things all right it means that you work  with the understanding that there is  nothing to be  believed in  all right it's not that i go around  denying that there is a soul i live my  life and i think about and i understand  reality  where the soul  is not any more real than something  shakespeare came up with in a sonnet it  has that kind of quality and by the way  as a nihilist i don't want to burn the  books of shakespeare i just don't want  them to have power over me politically  we've never had a situation where there  was a tyranny built on  the poetry of shakespeare  come up with a science fiction  experiment you can imagine a parallel  universe you know i have been to  weddings where people read quotations  from shakespeare i have been to funerals  where people read quotations of  shakespeare you could completely create  a religion from the the cherry picking  the selective reading of the most  meaningful most evocative most beautiful  you know  lines of shakespeare of  his poetry and his his his dramas and so  on and you can kind of imagine a  parallel universe where that became  the canon  of a coercive  state religion but you know it's not  that i have no appreciation for the  poetry of shakespeare the poetry of  buddhism the poetry of christianity  there might be something there that i  can enjoy but i regard it as fiction  only there is nothing to be believed in  in the drama  of  william shakespeare okay  i as a nihilist  i have no reason to debunk hamlet  why would i barge into  a theater it doesn't matter if it's a  movie theater or it's a live play let's  perform let's imagine a live performance  of hamlet what a  madman  somebody rushes in  and jumps on stage and yells at the  audience and berates the actors don't  you realize  that this man hamlet  doesn't even exist  that historically  he never existed it's all a figment of  your imagination there never was a real  hamlet  there never was a real prince of denmark  named hamlet  from which this like you're acting out a  scene from history with a war and a  battle over the succession and who's  going to inherit the throne and one king  murdered another and don't you realize  it's all a lie  you've been lied to  you know  this actor he's not the real hamlet take  off his wig  you know let's hold that don't you  realize  okay so there's more than one level of  deception and self-deception here like  to be debunked  and my point is as a nihilist i'm not a  debunker of these things right i can go  into the theater and i can watch a  performance of shakespeare's hamline but  for me  there is nothing to be believed in and  as long as this doesn't have any kind of  coercive influence over people right  there's really no cause for struggle  there now unfortunately the power of  christianity has over people's lives  it's much greater than the power  shakespeare has life the power islam has  over people's lives the power judaism  has over people's lives there's a real  reason to get up on stage and say look  jesus christ never was an historical  figure it's not just that this actor  wearing a wig and a beard or something  it's not just that he is portraying  jesus in an historically inaccurate way  that actually this is mythology that  people are misperceiving and  misunderstanding as something  historically real and then they are  packaging that  they are producing something that is  incredibly politically influential and  incredibly damaging to people's lives  that is  you know the war  of the nihilus against the believers  that's where our struggle begins but  also that's where our struggle ends you  know there's no reason for nihilists to  ever burn  the books of buddhist philosophy you  know the point is to actually end the  belief in these things to have people  start living their lives the way i do  which is not attacking and debunking  beliefs but really perceiving reality in  a way where you appreciate there is  nothing here to be believed in  guys i will see your comments as they  come in  um i mean i'm sitting here with melissa  one of the only people on planet earth  for whom this philosophy is not  disturbing and horrifying  and i think you know it can be said i  don't know if there are some people in  the audience who'll admit this right now  i think that probably many of you heard  me present a nihilistic critique of  circumcision  you're all on board yeah this is  terrible this is [ __ ] nobody should  believe in circumcision  you've heard me present a nihilistic  critique of  christmas  santa claus nativity of jesus and you're  still on board  you know you've heard me criticize  batman  from nihilistic perspective  some of you turn against me at them oh  you've heard me criticize drug addiction  and skiing and alcohol and  antidepressants  you've seen so much of this nihilistic  critique but i think for a lot of you it  was shocking when you logged into  patreon or you opened up your email your  patreon support of mine and you click  and you see whoa this guy doesn't even  believe in compassion this guy's going  after this guy's taking on  compassion as yet another false god yet  another false belief that's exactly what  we're doing in this video that is  exactly what i do in chapter three  of future of an illusion  you can you can start with chapter three  obviously i think it's more meaningful  if you read chapter one chapter two  first but you can't you can jump right  in  and start reading chapter three and i'll  read you guys a short uh a short passage  from it in just a few minutes  hmm  so i'm reading your questions now  melissa if you do want to bump in but i  just say you know i think it is somewhat  interesting uh even if melissa is my  only subject here what i i do have  others i just we're not on a  face-to-face basis i had someone writing  to me today  who has watched my youtube channel from  the age of 16 to 22.  and she said yeah this has been a huge  influence  on her life but i think for people like  that whether it was from  16 to 22 or from 26 to 32. you know i've  had viewers who've watched me listen for  years i think a lot of those people will  have had multiple breaking points  where they thought okay i'm cool with  this guy's philosophy and then they hit  some kind of limit it was like whoa i'm  not sure i'm comfortable with this i'm  not sure i'm comfortable with  questioning and challenging and  rejecting these beliefs even though  they're comfortable with the critique of  of belief in general a brief um a brief  example from the first year of this  youtube channel there was a guy he was  really a guy and his wife together  uh he had been a passionate fan of my  channel and he started a discussion  forum for fans of the channel and he  wrote to me about that at one stage  and so he was supporting the channel and  he was so enthusiastic about the channel  and then the moment  i started criticizing pet ownership  the moment i started talking about it  being really evil to castrate cats and  dogs to carry remove you know perform a  hysterectomy on on female cats and dogs  to  physically modify these animals to break  their spirit to train them to turn them  into human play things and so on as soon  as my  nihilistic critique of so much that's  wrong  in our culture  touched on this area that he and his  wife were deeply personally committed to  they were people who were spending time  every day  cleaning up cat hair and cat piss and  cat  kitty litter shall we say you know they  were spending all this time uh dealing  with domesticated cats and it was so  crucial to their sense of their own  moral superiority over others that what  they were doing was compassionate  you have to believe you have to believe  and you know they hated me intensely you  guys started a new youtube channel i  assume it's disappeared now i i don't  know i haven't seen it or found from  many many years um i assume at some  point he got embarrassed by it and just  deleted it i never asked him i never  asked him  but um he started a youtube channel just  denouncing me and he was denouncing me  so passionately after having been a fan  of the supporter of mine because you  know he had to defend his sense of  his own moral superiority over others  that for him  uh it was unthinkable  that what he justified as compassion  could be from another person's  perspective cruelty  so yeah we got it we got an admission  from the audience here thanks for  writing in james james said quote been  watching you for six years it was  surprising that you don't believe in  compassion but still respectable so he  was a little bit surprised  well yes um  the context for the critique of  compassion in chapter three  is  veganism the future of the vegan  movement  and a large part of what i have to say  is  look  catholics  think that they're compassionate people  catholics think that they're being  compassionate  when they are carrying out massacres of  unbelievers when they're forcing people  to convert at the sword um  you know they're these terrible  unspeakable forms of cruelty  that they perceive amongst themselves as  compassionate the things that a true  believing catholic considers  compassionate and that they within their  community signal to one another as  compassion  to them  that seems  real it seems like something that exists  it seems something that nobody has to  prove the existence of  and then oh how quickly we slip into  this mentality  where all that we're discussing is how  you ought to believe in it you ought to  believe it's real because then you'll be  a better person and we'll have a better  community and the world will be a better  place if only you can believe to believe  in compassion very similar to believing  in the soul believing in the afterlife  believing in divine punishment or divine  retribution many many people will make  the argument nakedly that they can't  prove that evil deeds will be punished  after you die and of course there are so  many problems built into that statement  whose definition of evil from whose  perspective is it good or evil you know  exactly with these these kinds of  questions  um  but nevertheless you should believe in  it for the greater good because think of  what a better society would have if  everyone lived with this fear of of  punishment the iphone oh well you're  dodging the question of whether or not  this really exists whether or not it's  true someone's already bring up the  concept of falsifiability you know  you know  but even setting aside  these scientific hypotheses  um  would the world be a better place if we  forced all school children  to respect  william shakespeare's hamlet  this this masterpiece we could force  every school child to memorize a  significant part of that play we could  have it on the exams at the end of high  school and so on we could we could  create a culture where it's coercive  everyone must appreciate william  shakespeare this is part of being a  civilized person or this is part of  being a canadian citizen or a british  citizen or an australian citizen where  we make this a definitive coercive  aspect of our culture in order to be a  good person in order to be taken  seriously and that you should be able to  quote shakespeare or from memory and so  okay so i'm choosing this intentionally  would the world be a better place  if we did that a lot of you would say  yes i mean i know the context of this  conversation  it might seem crazy but it's very it's  very easy in the context of some other  conversation we're talking about  improving education you say look kids  these days they grow up with no  appreciation for literature and high  culture they just watch this garbage on  tv let's let's try to elevate the  discourse by by really increasing the  importance of shakespeare in the  curriculum  you see my point this type of argument  the world would be a better place  if everyone believed blank  it's always an ineluctably  evil  even when the belief we're talking about  is the most anodyne thing imaginable  like  shakespeare like the literary value of  shakespeare it's not not even  supernatural right and and the problem  is  belief  you know the the problem is the way in  which belief videos everything a belief  in compassion is evil  even if compassion as such is is good  um sorry do you want to say  yeah when you were talking about this  example of catholic missionaries  massacring populations  for the greater good yes for  compassionate reasons  a prime example of this complete  dichotomy  is the nuclear testing that was done on  a bikini at all  what they told what army officials  military officials what the president  said about this testing was that this  was going to ring  this was this was god's will you know  really speaking completely positively  about something that it's completely  evil  so yeah i just was thinking about that  uh how many examples in history where  people are totally blinded by belief  into doing horrible things i was just  typing out enough terms if people want  to google it and learn more they'll know  what example you're  you're talking about yes  and this is i mean  this is one type of false compassion  but i'm making the argument here that  all compassion is false compassion there  is no true compassion there's more than  one model more than one notion of  compassion is false so one model is this  kind of compassion premised on what  would be for the greater good what would  be for the greater whole for the future  of the world like oh well the u.s  military  may be dropping nuclear bombs on your  homeland and  literally on your  home uh but there is this greater good  so and so forth you have a whole  discourse of compassion and making the  world build life ah but this is not the  only one  one that i draw attention to again and  again is for example  this is compassionate because it's for  the good of your soul  this isn't for the good of the person  you actually are  right it's for the good of the person i  think you ought to be and this model  comes even closer to the delusions that  vegans  live with right so you know  the the delusion is i am going to force  you to be vegan and you are going to  recognize me as compassionate because  i'm doing this not to help you  the actual person you are  i'm helping the person you ought to be  i'm imagining a perfectly rational  person that's it's my subjective idea of  rationality also of course if you were  rational if you were willing to listen  if you were if you would only believe if  you would only believe all the things i  believe which is what i really mean by  being rational right like we talk about  rational but most of the time it's  totally rationality that we mean the  same way a catholic  is going to destroy an indigenous  culture right on the premise that oh if  only they knew if only they were  rational if only these indigenous people  believe the same things we believe then  they would agree with us eradicating  their culture eradicating their language  or even eradicating them you know  engaging in this incredibly oppressive  series of steps is calling us the point  being  the delusion is we know better what we  know what we feel what we believe is  objectively true right and therefore  we are being compassionate when in fact  we are being cruel right  now vegans they fall into both  categories in terms of the mentality  sure partly it is you know like you're  you're torturing someone but it's for  the benefit of their immortal soul you  know you're hurting someone you're  punishing someone  or what have you and it's not to benefit  them as the person they are it's not to  help them achieve the things they  actually desire they actually want right  instead  you're helping a theoretical person that  they ought to be a hyper that an  imaginary person whether that's their  soul or it's again it's a more rational  person it's someone who has more in  common with yourself you know and by the  way a lot of diet advice works this way  too not just even non-vegan diet advice  this is the diet and exercise you should  have if you were the same kind of person  i am if you wanted to be the same kind  of person well  people may not have those things  in common with you so you know yes part  of this is vegans going out and you know  reproaching people and uh indeed of  course veganism extends to and includes  acts of outright terrorism acts of  violence which have so far been on a  small scale but in future may not be and  thus i'm constantly warning against and  criticizing the tendency towards  organized violence and veganism  organized or disorganized  something i'm constantly standing the  alarm bell i guess but that violence  that coercion that imposition sometimes  is justified by  helping the person you want to be your  true self  truly rational person  your true soul  and sometimes it's for instead that  greater good way of thinking because the  world would be a better place if  everyone believed what i believe if  everyone hacked the way i act  uh so guys again it's a good time to  comment if you want me to respond to uh  what you have to say it's a good time to  hit the thumbs up button if you have a  second too because you've tolerated this  incredibly offensive lecture for 40  minutes already  so  if you think this is thought provoking  if you think other people should  discover this video um  by all means you know hit the hit the  thumbs up button  um  i want to come back to the  example i had at the beginning  so there's this  beautiful younger woman just younger  than me not not really objectively young  i'm old says this beautiful younger  woman  and she thinks that what i'm saying is  so compassionate and so wonderful when  i'm telling her look  crackhead you're gonna [ __ ] up your life  you better get your act together  you know you better get disciplined you  better get squared away  now you know she sympathized that  perspective she liked she appreciated  she thought i was doing something caring  she thought something helpful i was  duper and we can sit here and say that  she is right my point is somebody else  wouldn't perceive it that way right and  quite likely the fact that she did  perceive it that way had everything to  do with her sense of attraction towards  me physical attraction sexual attraction  just aesthetic attraction she just found  me an appealing person in some very  vague sense  it probably had to do with her sense of  admiration for me  she regarded me as an intelligent person  an admiral person a a good person right  people can help you in your life  they can do things that really help you  and you don't perceive them as  compassionate because you're not  attracted to them  because you don't like them  because you think they're ugly or you  think they're scary  or you know they're you may maybe you're  a little bit xenophobic  they're they speak another language they  speak  they speak english with a really thick  accent they're from another culture  they're like they're kind of scary to  you in those ways but they actually  helped you  right and for whatever reason whatever  combination of resentments and  perceptions and misperceptions you  didn't perceive them  as being compassionate now my point here  is like you're talking about this kind  of talk this is like a drug talk this is  a getting sober talk right with someone  which in many ways is judgmental and  reproachful and and cruel  many of my videos are many of my videos  have a certain measure of cruelty a  certain measure of sang fra  which from my perspective is intended to  help people in the audience  some people can appreciate that and some  people  can't  and it doesn't have anything to do with  an objectively real notion of compassion  you can never prove that i'm right and  they're wrong because i have compassion  and they don't right the most recent  video uploaded to my channel before this  one is me criticizing mexi okay so mexi  is a youtuber if you don't know who it  is don't  don't look it up all right  from my perspective  i'm saying look  your beliefs your political beliefs are  bad and evil and wrong and i'm trying to  help you like from my person i'm trying  to help you and more likely i'm trying  to help other people like you in the  audience because there will be other  people with similar misconceptions  similar political confessions so on and  so forth i'm i'm trying to help you but  what am i actually doing  i'm pointing the finger and saying you  are bad and evil and wrong you are  stupid and ignorant you have made this  childishly simple  mistake  and why did she make it this specific  video but it's true of many many videos  why that video ends by my saying yeah  the error you made right it's not like a  math error it's not a quantitative error  you made this mistake  because you're selfish  you're self-pitying  and you're delusional  in like self-serving self-aggrandizing  egotistical ways that's really insulting  and  you know so again this one point you  think there's a difference between the  perception of compassion and and  compassion as such  a lot of the people who watch that video  and think wow you know this guy about  lucielle hasn't he's doing something  really good he's doing something really  positive in reaching out to this young  woman younger than me you know and in  reaching out to anyone in the audience  who has similar problems and is thinking  somewhere wow he's doing this  what if i were ugly  right and what if i were just a member  of a culture or a religion that you  despise what if you didn't sympathize  with me you know what i mean like you  you know i'm sorry i know it's it's it's  difficult to imagine we have to get into  some some very specific hypothetical  example to to flesh that out but okay  what if i had become a buddhist monk  what if i were what if i was still me  like you know but what if i were wearing  a buddhist monk and i were i'm sorry i  was wearing the robes of a buddhist monk  and these same videos the same message  was being delivered in the harsh morally  castigating term of someone who's  preaching to you that you ought to  convert to to buddhism you know what i  mean  the same message would be so much less  uh you you would be so much less  sympathetic you wouldn't perceive it as  compassion and we go beyond it what if  it was a muslim preacher right what if  it was a muslim preacher from africa  like what if it was someone you didn't  sympathize with it's someone in this  very broad sense you didn't find  attractive i'm not saying everyone in my  audience has a crush on me  but you know  a huge percentage of people who are  willing to watch that video and listen  to what i have to say and give me the  benefit of the doubt and regard what i'm  doing as compassionate and  well-intentioned  instead of just fastening on to the fact  that you said she was bad and evil and  wrong you insulted her just clinging to  that and responding to that defensively  or negatively yeah in a really vague  sense a lot of those people do have a  crush on me and the opposite mentality  the people who say how dare you  the people who are so offended they are  the people of a crush on her  and i've encountered that again and  again i can't believe how stupid the  defenders of a natural vegan are the  defenders of mexi are  male or female straight or gay  like in terms of people who've actually  talked to me  without exception they have a crush on  her  and all they can see all they can  perceive is that this person they have a  crush on right that they're a good and  wonderful person they sympathize with  them they perceive them as compassionate  and they see what i'm doing as insulting  and denigrating right now even with this  first example i opened the video with  where i talk to this young woman again  by phone or by skype something like that  you know  it's both what i had to say to her like  in a sense it's caring it's helpful  and in a sense it's denigrating and it's  insulting  right it's both because it's saying if  you don't get clean and sober if you  don't make this your top priority you're  going to ruin your life forever i don't  have to fill in all the details you know  it's it's both  like  perceived compassion  is all there is there is no objectively  real compassion there never was there  never has been there never will be  to say the word compassion is used a lot  in drug abuse and  sobriety  uh taking a compassionate approach  to influencing people to embrace  sobriety or  i've heard recently even just  whatever drug is causing them the  problem you know not complete sobriety  but just  being sober from this one drug so in  this case this woman should stay away  from death but marijuana is okay that's  the compassionate approach i guess these  days uh rather than enforcing sobriety  on somebody  i just think it's  it's strange to  see  now that now that i've uh come to  live this way where i i've lived a sober  life for over five years  uh to me it seems strange to say that  it's not compassionate  to  advise somebody to be sober  why would it be more helpful to them to  put them on some other kind of drug or  something else because that is typically  the standard yes  um  and we see this all the time with people  who are struggling with mental health  problems  instead of  if somebody is really going to  hurt themselves or others instead of  putting them in some kind of  harness you know getting them to stop  doing whatever it is um giving them  drugs is somehow seen as more  compassionate  um you know it just just any sense so i  want i want to give them a specific  example to make it easier to visualize  yeah okay  i am working with the assumption that  some people  are dyslexic that's something that  really exists in the world okay  i may be wrong it may be that the  progress of medical science in the  future proves that dyslexia isn't real i  have known  several dyslexic people there are three  different ones i'm remembering at this  moment i've probably known more than  three  i have known adult men who were  dyslexic and they they displayed very  strange behaviors  that you know again i attribute it to  this thing we call dyslexia that we  believe exists in the real world  if you have a test  that you apply to children for dyslexia  do you think there are zero children who  fake the test do you think there are  zero children who are lazy and deceitful  and don't like doing their school work  and they  understand that if they do badly on this  test they're going to get  they don't have to write you know exams  in school anymore they're going to get  special help they're going to put in a  special class that everything's going to  be made  easier for them are you saying that's  never happened on planet earth because  i've known people who did that kind of  thing i've known people you know who  faked illiteracy and stuff you know what  i mean i've faked their way through  different things so right children can  be very dishonest and deceitful okay so  already we've got two categories here we  have people who are actually dyslexic  and we have people who are lazy and  dishonest and you know they may be so  lazy that their ability to read and  write is is really poor but they're not  dyslexic they don't have this real thing  that exists that we assume  scientifically is falsifiable that it  really exists in the same way cancer  exists that there's some kind of  palpable reality apart from our  motivations our feelings etc etc  in any particular case if you have a  brother who's dyslexic how confident are  you that he's not just lazy  how how certain are you that this is the  real thing of dyslexia okay so let's  let's let's talk about compassion real  quick here two two extremes all right  what if you have a parent  and his attitude is um  as a completely  abstract uh de joure  assumption as an a priori assertion to  get canty in about it  you have a parent you have a father of  this allegedly dyslexic child and his  position is no dyslexia never exists  it's always an excuse for laziness and  therefore he is a father is going to  take all of his time and all of his  effort and sit with this kid and  motivate him and guide him and force him  to learn to read and write again and  again again for however many hours it  takes and he won't accept the excuse and  he's going to say to his son no you're  not going into a special class at school  you're not going through us as a  second-rate kid you are going to work as  hard as you can  to be a first-rate kid in the first-rate  class you're going to do english  literature at the highest level you're  not going to be in the special class for  people who can't read good  it's a reference to a movie sorry kids  who can't read good is a medium i'm  aware that's grammatically correct  the special class for kids who can't  read good  um no you have a father who on the basis  of something that we might call a  delusion  is passionate about helping his kid  achieve the highest standard of  excellence possum  right and maybe even this guy maybe  that's his attitude towards all kids  maybe he opens a [ __ ] school and he  starts taking it because other parents  notice this and say wow this is great  and you get a whole bunch of kids  i don't know he starts teaching five or  10 kids or something with this same  methodology oh you see how slippery this  is  so his  philosophy  is not  true  and yet  the world would be a better place  if we all lived as if it were true right  and yet it benefits his son or it  benefits these children he's teaching  right yeah if only  if only they could be rational if only  they could be reasonable if only they  could believe the same things he  believes  and then work hard and say to them no  you have to work 10 times as hard as the  other students but you'll do it you'll  overcome your laziness you'll  see how slippery this is  ah okay is this compassionate  is this cruel  is it both  what if this guy you're probably  imagining him as me  okay like you're probably just imagining  isil mazar doing this if i wasn't as  hard as a has a dyslexic kid okay what  if he's ugly  what if he's ugly and foreign and speaks  in an accent  and  he stinks and you don't like him and  he's belligerent and bellicose  what like  if you actually flesh out the details  you know what if this guy is a you know  so he's an immigrant from a foreign  culture and he has these attitudes  maybe you regard him you regard him as a  bumpkin you're regarded as someone very  uneducated unsophisticated well this guy  doesn't understand dyslexia is a real  disease this guy is just a horrible  bully he's this ex-military demented  domineering guy  you know and he's ugly and you just like  i'm sort of emphasizing this because  your sense of sympathy for him  and and your sense that what he's doing  to help his own son is compassionate as  opposed to cruel as opposed to  counter-productive as opposed to  ridiculous it's going to have everything  to do with  who he is aesthetically to you right  because that's how shallow  this perception of compassion is that's  how  shallow and stupid it is this is why  it's always wrong you should never  believe in it you should never reify it  you should never hypothesize you should  never think this is something that that  really exists okay so that's one model  of compassion  and it's compassion based on a kind of  ontological denial  that dyslexia exists  okay  what about the opposite extreme  we have someone who's a parent  or a school principal maybe they are  both a parent and a school principal and  they have the view that you know  some children are just born special  and if you're born with dyslexia if you  write this test that proves  quote-unquote proves whether or not you  have dyslexia then as soon as we know  you're dyslexic we should take you into  this special class and we should go easy  on you and we should be kind and  encouraging we should have lower  standards and lower expectations for you  and yeah we should put you on these  drugs  we should put you on drugs that cause  permanent irreversible brain damage and  actually cause developmental damage to  your whole body as you're going through  compassion  this is not hypothetical  what's going on right now  and that teacher that principal that  parent all the people who follow the  camp they will think  they're helping their child  putting their child on a form of  prescription methamphetamine  right they'll be like oh well you know i  know it screws up your sleep cycle i  know it has these other negative side  effects but you know it's it's so  important because you have this  medically real condition owen oh and  don't worry reading shakespeare is hard  you shouldn't you shouldn't have to work  hard okay honey you've come home from  school and you've taken your drugs just  sit and play video games just try to  relax because it's hard for you because  you're just like  is that compassion  all right well hypothetically either  model  could ruin this kid's life  it could ruin the lives of thousands of  children either one could ruin their  life and you probably can also find some  examples of individuals  you know worked out positively  right  but like you think compassion is  something that's objectively real  which parent would you have compassion  for which school principal which teacher  with which set of attitudes and where  would your own  compassion come from i think a lot of  the time  it really it really is as shallow as  sexual attraction it has a lot to do  with sex reduction overlaps with sexual  attraction to a shocking extent  if you guys can remember your own  childhood  engineering  you may not remember this detail and you  may not want to  most children have the experience of  having a crush on  a teacher  so you know there are little boys who  have a crush on a school teacher a  female school teacher and they're little  girls who have a crush on a on a male  school teacher uh when i was growing up  this is just totally different from city  to city  culture culture you know most of the  teachers the full-time teachers  they were old frankly they were elderly  but we would get these short-term  temporary teachers  uh and i think they were people who had  just finished college to become a  teacher they were still doing some kind  of internship some kind of temporary  replacement  and they were in the prime of their life  so i don't know if they were 25 or 20  like but they were you know they were  young and attractive people  and i had contempt for the other  students in the classroom because you  could see it  you could see how different it was when  these kids sexualized a teacher male or  female you know and occasionally this  was true about um supply teachers  temporary teachers too because i think  they were they were people who had  finished teachers college but they  hadn't been able to find a position so  again this is just totally different in  different parts well obviously you could  have a teacher who was  your situation could have been the  opposite um that you had all  young and attractive teachers there but  in this aspect of human behavior all  right  if you feel you can trust a teacher if  you feel  that you like a teacher and a teacher  likes you back that they are kind to you  and you're kind to them maybe because  you have a crush on them or maybe  something else just as shallow and  aesthetic  right  any little thing that teacher does to  help you  will be perceived as compassionate  all right  and there may be another school teacher  you had in your own life growing up  and they were very fat  and they were very ugly or they were  very scary i mean fear being afraid of  your teachers another factor in in youth  my father described to me one teacher he  had who was a world war one veteran and  he was scarified by world war one and  his voice was terrifying his demeanor  was terrifying he was a mean old man who  had the scars of war on his body and i  think it was from inhaling the gas in  war or something like that you know he  spoke with this terrifying you know  um and his laughter was terrible here  you're a little kid and you're really  scared  of this of this teacher you know um so  you know fear as well as revulsion you  know revulsion being opposed to  attraction all these factors go into it  there may have been a school teacher who  really helped you or who tried to help  you much more  but you weren't attracted to them so you  perceive their compassion as  cruelty  you know or you just pursue you perceive  it as creepy or you perceive it as  unwanted attention like this teacher is  really trying to help you and you just  think ooh gross why is this old fat guy  trying to type why is this scary old  woman  trying to talk i just want to be left  alone you know there are a lot at every  age like this  institutional education has a lot of  problems i mean psychologically average  again we can add religion to it what if  you were a catholic and we're talking  about nuns  talking about women who beat you with a  ruler and are wearing a uniform like you  know there are different elements what  if you just went to a mixed school like  i did a quote-unquote secular school but  some of your teachers are muslim and  some of them are you know  uh jehovah's witness and other religions  like this well  you might not perceive  an arabic muslim teacher taking you  aside and saying look kid you got to  think about your future they're doing  something from their perspective that's  compassionate and you don't perceive its  compassion because it's him because it's  her  right  like  this is way beyond the point of  diminishing subjectivity like this is  way beyond  beauty is in the eye of the beholder  right  this is you know like  a distorted mirror image  of something that was in the eye at the  boulder i hurts down several uh several  stages of this kind of um  this kind of distortion  you know  do you want to see something i'm just  gonna just read a question  well it's not responding directly to the  point that you ended on but something  that you were talking about about the  example of a dyslexic student who is put  into a remedial  remedial class  in the book that i've been reading about  antidepressants and all other  psychiatric medications uh anatomy of an  epidemic  there's an example of a family that took  in a lot of different foster children  over the years and throughout their time  of taking foster children something like  90 children that they've had come in and  out of their house so  they've had  this  objectively real  uh they've noticed this objectively real  change and how  how many kids are prescribed  adhd medication how many children are  prescribed antidepressants and  anti-anxiety medications  um  so this is this is  that i'm just you know saying this to  [ __ ] you you know why you already  sympathize we're going it's for the  audience you're saying this yeah  this is really happening and i think a  lot of people would take the approach  that this is compassionate toward these  children who don't have a proper home  life you know they weren't they're being  raised by their parents for whatever  reason and uh because they struggle in  school it's is the same attitude like  well the competition approach is to not  push them yes your life is hard your  life is harder than other children so  let's let's give you some kind of  medication to  you know help make it easier for you  when really it's settling them with all  kinds of problems later on in life and  they themselves are confused as to you  know why why i feel this way when i'm  struggling with williams health problems  still so yeah i mean it's it's a real  problem and uh you know i know this  doesn't relate to exactly what you're  saying about you know whether you  interpret something that's compassionate  but i do think even if you just hear  that same argument from somebody that uh  you don't sympathize with um then it  starts to become more clear and i know  that that is shallow but like when you  hear somebody um  who is not attractive who's who's not  young like  explaining why they're giving children  ritalin  you know maybe it's not as  yes  easy to sympathize with somebody who's  attractive  yeah maybe you can think about it with  more uh detachment and so on now i just  want to draw attention to something um  built into  the approach taken in this video in the  first hour of this video  talked about the soul  and then we talked about dyslexia  as an innate characteristic  something very similar to the soul  either you have it or you don't it's  something you are  right  but you know  reading  is a skill  writing  is a skill  it's not something you're born with it's  not something you are  hmm  why  do we think about compassion  as an innate  physically real characteristic  why don't we think of it as something  like a skill  i said many years ago on the channel  any video game that was  actually educational any video game you  would actually benefit from playing  would not be a game at all  this is a  a game  educational software it's every bit as  boring as a math textbook but you can  set it up and do daily math exercises  daily tests and i bought it  because i have thought about trying to  improve my ability to do math  in my own head off the top of my head  what do you want to say all right  i've had different times in my life  in which i was good at math  all right it's not worth describing like  one job in particular i remember i was  doing mathematical equations  mathematical calculations every day  it's not innate i was i wasn't born  being bad at math but now for many many  years math has not been a part of my  life at all and i have to think about do  i want to set aside some time to improve  my skill  in math now you know if you sit down  today and have me write even just a high  school level math exam i can't do it  maybe you're gonna diagnose me as having  you know  some condition equivalent to dyslexia  what dyslexia is for reading  you're going to say oh you have a kind  of innate innumeracy and inability to do  numbers and i don't  it's a skill  i have not practiced  for many years  maybe when you deal with the upper  echelons of that skill set you know  maybe some people  are you know more talented than others  of being extremely good at math i think  that you'd even see the equation i had  on screen there that's not what we're  talking about here you know the ability  to really rapidly do calculations  whether it's multiplication division or  what have you to have that stuff you  know we say english at your fingertips  but here we we don't mean interviews to  be able to cope with numbers and  calculations off the top of your head  that's a skill  it's not a trait  okay  what if  these behaviors  we perceive as compassion right what if  it's nothing like dyslexia at all what  if it's nothing nothing like believing  in the soul at all or any of these  things what if it's actually just a  skill you can develop and maybe maybe  you develop it for a couple of years  you know and then you move into a  different  line of work and you neglect that skill  you neglect that side of your character  and you stop being a compassionate  person  you know oh  isn't that kind of threatening  in a subtle and  insidious way to this  you know whole ideology  we have  of compassion  vegans are not alone in this  but vegans have built this horrible  political movement on the false  assertion that we alone are  compassionate that we are the  compassionate ones that everyone else is  a kind of psychopath  because they eat meat and we're wrong  because i am vegan and i'm a dogmatic  vegan and i'm a coercive vegan you know  in some ways i'm the most extreme kind  of vegan but i'm willing to say we are  wrong this is a false belief and this is  a false  model of compassion and it's false in  precisely the same way that the catholic  notion of compassion is false which is  that it only seems true when you're  within your little enclave when you're  within your cult when you're within your  cultural in-group other catholics will  perceive what you're doing as  compassionate you will signal to them in  a way they can appreciate your  compassion and vice versa you know  you're gonna  recognize one another  um  in this sense  you know  the the vegan notion of  compassion the conception we have of  ourselves as the elect  as the only compassionate  people all right  it is wrong root and branch and it's not  just wrong in the sense that you know  the questioning does this really exist  is this really real it's also wrong in  the the assertion if everyone believed  this it would the world would be a  better place that you ought to believe  this you know the separate question of  it does this exist in order to be  believed in  and then the moralizing sense of that  you that you should  believe in it okay now again  within veganism we already had an  example this come up at great length  i do not think it is compassionate to  castrate a cat  and force it to sleep on your couch and  watch tv with you i don't think it's  compassionate to take a cat  or a lion  or a penguin or an ostrich like any wild  animal wild or feral to take it  and physically modify it and hold it in  captivity right  the vast majority of vegans  consider pet ownership caring for pets  and even caring for injured wild animals  in these kinds of conditions they  consider that the very definition of  compassion they consider that the  characteristic that separates them from  the psychopaths whom they perceive as  the vast majority of human beings in our  society that they are they alone are the  ones who will volunteer at an animal  shelter to care for pigs chickens cats  dogs horses whatever and what they  consider caring  i consider  cruelty  right same thing the the face face-off  between catholics and indigenous people  who are being conquered and colonized by  catholics okay what one side considers  civilized the other side considers  barbaric  all right  circumcision  is circumcision civilized or is it  barbarism for the people who believe in  it it's the definition  of civilization of refinement and for an  outsider who doesn't believe these  things it's totally barbaric and each  side the people on each side they  consider themselves right they consider  themselves rational  and they think the world would be a  better place if everyone else would just  believe  in the way that that they do  um  do you want to speak babe  yes so  some people might interpret your recent  video towards maxie as cruel yes  and i think you've encountered a lot of  criticism on your channel for  in response to videos that you've  uploaded uh where you are criticizing  specifically young women  and i do think this is a problem in our  society that we right  people saw this also just just about  very briefly yeah the the quit video  games videos which are 99 about young  men  it's the same pattern exactly where some  people see it as compassionate hey that  you're really trying to help people but  some people see it as cruelty so no it's  true some of it's women but plenty of it  there are plenty of examples of the  young men too or displaying with old man  also but yeah yeah only just an old  gender's no i i agree with what you're  saying oh yeah sure go on  a lot of ways i i appreciate that you're  brave enough to  you know make that  make that statement that she's  delusional this is  her politics are evil bad and wrong and  somebody needs to say this or nobody is  you know going to challenge her on it  not even anybody in her personal life or  private life she talks in a video about  her her current partner just gives her  100 praise and that she would be lost if  he wasn't giving her 100 praise all the  time that to me i feel it's really  messed up and  um a problem  this relationship is not based on 100  practice  [Laughter]  because  you know we really do grow as people  when we encounter criticism and you know  another thing that you comment on is  that i'm one of the few people that  don't find your nihilistic uh philosophy  on life  disturbing but you know of course i've  i've grown a lot in the these last five  years and i've had to discard beliefs i  used to have and i feel overall i'm i'm  better for it now now that i'm able to  be rational about a lot of things but  not not gonna you know get too much into  uh to my personal life but you know just  this uh aspect that i see a lot is that  whether it's because people have a crush  on mexi or not uh just that the more  compassionate approach to take toward  people is indulging their stupidity and  making excuses for it  because you know otherwise it's cruel to  point out what's logical or rational  about their  assumptions about their life and you  know  when it could really help them when it  could really  uh  address some of the problems that  they're having you know  yeah  this is a question from the i agree with  all the stuff you're saying so  that's why i don't have a lot to say  about it  um  michael says in the audience  uh quote  i have no quarrel with the notion that  vegans are crazy to think of themselves  as the only ones with compassion  so  um  you know i think  there's a pragmatic question of  can you  or should you  build a political movement  on the basis  of the conceit  that you're morally superior to other  people  and then beyond that  what if that moral superiority  is built on a lie  when something that's not true it's so  it's not it's not real something that  can never be made real that can never be  substantiated objectively you know in  the eyes of uh  of an outside and detached observer now  all of this is only worth saying  because it's so unquestioned  that compassion is  a redeeming character trade like that's  that's why i have to articulate this at  all  if it were based on being tall or being  attractive like  i had two years ago in the channel i  said look why are you building a  political movement on the idea that  vegans are the only people who are thin  and beautiful and have a like  that that's just  and people could immediately see the  point of this christmas it's still a  problem it was more of a problem five  years ago but where i really had to  press this argument and say look we  can't have  uh you know we can't have a movement  that's built on quote-unquote lifestyle  activism weight loss activism fitness  activism diet activism this profoundly  is incoherent this doesn't make sense  it's kind of morally flawed in this in  this deep way  okay when you come to compassion  it's so much harder to challenge the  preconception right because nobody  everyone's willing to assume that  compassion is a positive  exclusively positive character or even  it is the definitively positive  characteristic that all other virtues  result from  compassion stem from flow from  you know uh compassion so you know the  same way people will say greed is the  root of all evil people do  say in different idioms and different  that compassion  is the root of all virtue  root of all goodness of all kindness  um  in chapter 3 i discussed this parable at  great length  but if you were to have  5 000 athletes  and you give them a test to try to  establish who is the most compassionate  and who is the least compassionate  let's say you give them a score between  zero and 100 it's a percentile test  so some people are 10 compassionate some  people are 20 compassionate 30 40 you  know but it's precise  so this is obviously a very hypothetical  test i'm proposing  obviously from my perspective compassion  isn't something that objectively exists  in the real world that could ever be  established through a test but  nevertheless  innumerable people with phds in  psychology and psychiatry would claim  that they can test for and establish and  quantify how compassionate people are  okay  so you have 5 000 people  we test them to see who is the most  compassionate who is the least  compassionate and then we separate them  into five different groups so all these  people are athletes they're all  competitive athletes let's say they're  all in track and field you know  so that we have five separate training  camps of athletes one thousand one  thousand one thousand one thousand  you have the one thousand most  compassionate athletes  training together you have the one  thousand least compassionate athletes  straight together they have several  in between for different levels  of compassion  do you think  that the most compassionate athletes  would be the best athletes  do you think they'd be the most  competitive do you think they'd be the  most  successful do you think they'd be the  smartest  what if we continue tracking these  people for many years they're like  decades after they go to compete in the  olympic games  do you think the most compassionate  people will be less likely to become  drug addicts alcoholics  cigarette smokers you know any anything  you want to add here anything we can  track do you think do you think the most  compassionate people will be more  successful in  in finding employment if we're imagining  this  objectively real  compassion what if instead we have 5 000  athletes and we separate them into five  groups  on the basis of their ability in math  you know there are  many positive character traits  that are related to you having the  self-discipline and focus necessary to  study  and  cultivate and maintain a high level of  ability in math incredibly few athletes  do that in our culture  again maybe it's different in japan  maybe it's different in hong kong maybe  it's different in beijing there are some  other cultures where being good at math  has a different quality  if you talk to athletes the main thing  they tell you is oh the minute i got on  the football team i checked out of math  class as soon as i knew i could be a  successful athlete as soon as i knew i  could go to the olympics as soon as soon  as i knew i could get into university on  the basis of a sports scholarship that  was it for me math was done  math was over i put they put the minimum  this is in our culture this is very  common it's incredibly rare  to meet an athlete who has the  self-discipline and just priority for  their own intellectual development to be  good at math um i think i've mentioned  this before but i i once saw an  interview  um  this is just related to the sports team  in toronto and they were talking about  how the intellectual caliber of the  athletes from different cultures is very  different and there was an old white man  from the american south this is a white  guy who grew up in a small town in the  south of the united states of america  and he was part of the old school of  baseball coaches he was an old man now  he had been a professional athlete when  he was younger and he walked up to a  cuban athlete  and he picked up the book that this  cuban athlete had taken out of his  locker and put on the bench while  they're changing clothes in the in the  locker room  and this old this old white guy from the  south said i've been coaching baseball  i've been training players for 50 years  this the first time in a locker room  i've ever seen a book that didn't have  no pictures of naked women  you know  and and you know this article was  discussing the extent to which athletes  were people like because they have the  luxury of not reading books like they  can they can read books they don't okay  if you separated those 5 000  athletes  if you tested them and separated them on  the basis of how good they were about if  you tested them and separated them on  the basis of how many non-fiction books  have you read in your spare time  in the last 10 years  that can be established as a fact how  many non-fiction books have you read  that nobody was forcing you to read he  wasn't required by a course or something  any of you in the audience think about  that some of you are going to feel  humiliated oh geez in the last 10 years  it's not a perfect test you could be a  brilliant person who doesn't read books  it's theoretically possible but we're  talking about 5 000 people 5 000  athletes  if you separate them in this sense on  the basis of literacy the level of  non-fiction reading it's not really  literacy active research as i like to  say how much active research you're  doing if you have the basis of math you  know  you will have a powerful predictor for  success in so many things in their life  but including athletic performance  because the people who have that kind of  mental self-discipline and focus it's  not just going to be math it's not just  going to be doing research or reading  about history or politics right that  level of self-discipline is also going  to make them extraordinary amongst  athletes they're going to be able to  apply that acumen and that focus to what  they do  on the sports field whatever sport it is  they're competing and of course it's  going to be an advantage over the other  players who are more intellectually lazy  or who are alcoholics or drug addicts or  other things that indirectly correspond  to how well they perform on a test that  relates to math  how much non-fiction they've read so on  and so forth but if you're really  being honest with yourself  you know that compassion does not  correspond to any of these other virtues  any of these other abilities  all right  so  someone else asked uh quote  why is it a problem if compassion is a  learned skill  i think it's deeply unsettling  because we live in a society  where we think  some people are born  compassionate and some people have no  compassion and they deserve to rot in a  prison cell until the day they die  for vegans  the whole world belongs in a prison cell  vegans are people who regard their own  parents that way and their own school  teachers that way and their priests and  their  vegans are people who go through their  lives and regard 99  of the rest of humanity  as being born defective  as being born as quote unquote  psychopaths  and that they can't change and they're  never going to change  and then that mentality carries on  within the movement in case you didn't  know  99 of vegans think i'm an immoral person  they think i'm evil  and they're applying this same  frankly catholic mentality this same  witch-hunting mentality to me  and i've been through it now for more  than eight years  that's that's been my burden to bear  you know sometimes i joke around about  it i mean  my famous line is who has suffered less  you know but of course there is a  certain amount of suffering it sucks it  sucks to be i mean it's miserable for me  it's horrible for me to be the object of  contempt and derision and hatred  not just  meat eaters regarding me that way but 99  of vegans regard me that way and sorry  not to be you know uh  needlessly offensive but why do meat  eaters hate me so much it's because on  some level they know that i'm right  absolutely i mean you sit down most of  you have had this experience where you  sit there i've had me say that to me  have them say that in those terms i've  had meteors sit there with me and say  you know what really pisses me off about  your world view is i know that you're  right  sorry but it's not extraordinary it's  the same with alcohol and gambling i've  melissa has seen this i've had  conversations be where i challenge them  i won't say who this was i said look do  you actually think i would be a better  person if i gambled  like you you know if you think if i were  more like you i'd be a better person and  the answer was no this guy agreed and  said look you know you're right  you know it's it's good i mean he said  it's a good thing that you refused to  gamble and he had to concede he would be  a better person if he quit gambling he's  not going to quit gambling he to some  extent hates and resents the fact that  i'm right you know you talk to someone  who's really uh drinks alcohol five days  a week or something whatever the  situation someone is a regular drinker  and you ask them okay so do you actually  think it's a bad thing for me to be  sober do you actually think i would be a  better person if i drank alcohol now  admittedly there's more than one answer  that some people will actually claim you  know you'd be a better person if you  were a drunk  you know  but often enough you talk to people and  they will say openly that the reason why  they hate you so much the reason why  they hate having this conversation with  you is that they know that you're right  and they feel that pressure on them they  feel that awareness that there's a  better person they could be or a better  person they could have been if they  would quit drinking if they would quit  gambling  um  so on and so forth so yeah a lot of the  friction  within sorry a lot of the friction in my  life as a vegan  yes  i have to deal with these kinds of  confrontations with meat eaters who  don't even think i'm wrong but they hate  me for being right  and then i deal with exactly the same  thing  on a higher level of intensity in  dealing with my own fellow vegans  because from their perspective  the things that i might consider  compassionate they consider cruel  and vice versa they are actively engaged  in things including castrating cats and  dogs  they are engaged in things that they  think  are definitively compassionate  that i despise as cruelty  i'm going to read just a couple  paragraphs in the start of chapter 3 of  my new book veganism the future of an  illusion buy it on amazon i'll give a  link soon enough  chapter 3 begins  all evils imagined and unimaginable have  been justified by this word compassion  vegans dump red paint on the diners at a  random restaurant and cannot understand  why the public fails to see this as an  act of compassion  for  the victims  in the same way that anti-abortion  protesters dump red paint on doctors and  nurses quote unquote  giving voice to the voiceless  in much the same idiom that vegans use  when speaking of themselves  with sincere incomprehension  as to why the general public does not  appreciate them as compassionate  rather than dangerous  [Music]  so the comparison between veganism  and the anti-abortion movement runs  really deep here sorry i've stopped  reading the text you can't tell  um  people who are pro-life and  anti-abortion see what they are doing as  compassionate and as the very definition  of compassion i've had some of those  people send me email and so on and they  are saying why can't you have compassion  for the victims why can't you stand up  and be compassion for the victims and  the people who are pro-abortion on the  other side  they are saying why can't you have  compassion for this pregnant mother so  here's this woman she got pregnant  accidentally she doesn't want to have  and raise this baby they're asking the  question why can't you have compassion  for her and this is part of their  worldview and this is definitively  compassionate compatible  each side regards the other as perfectly  irrational each side is willing to use  coercion and violence  right in order to quote unquote benefit  [Laughter]  others  benefit everyone  they think the world would be a better  place if everyone was rational in the  way that they were rational meaning if  everyone believed the same things they  believe  okay this is  the same kind of total  mutual comprehension that exists not  just in separating vegans or mediators  but from my perspective in separating  fake vegans from real vegans because  remember the vast majority of vegans  hate me  continue reading from chapter three here  the genocide of whole nations cultures  and languages has been carried out in  the name of this compassion  not for people as they truly were  but to benefit them as they ought to be  not for the evanescent reality of mere  women and men but for the sake of their  immortal souls the pattern is much the  same outside of the explicitly religious  sphere  it is not to help people in achieving  the things they actually want  that we practice our self-styled  compassion  but instead  it is to help an idealized person  achieve what we what we believe they  ought to desire  indeed we may be interrupting them in  the midst of their pursuit of selfish  short-sighted irrational things when our  compassion causes us to assist them  contrary to their self-interest  but consistent with our own  massacres are made invisible to the  people who commit them  by compassion  acts of terrorism and cruelty are made  to seem kind by means of this same  compassion  putting a drug addict in prison may be  the compassionate thing to do according  to one person  and yet shutting the prison down and  liberating all the drug addicts may be  more compassionate according to another  imprisonment exile and execution can all  be justified by compassion  it is a dangerous concept  clothed in anodyne distractions  like a sword wrapped up in shelving  paper  you're all the more likely to cut  yourself because you can neither see its  true shape  nor which end you're laying your hands  upon  what the referendum is to the average  dictatorship  compassion is to the activist  it is a corrupt plebiscite  with just one voter